docs: new style guide - Inclusive Language (#1327)
asyncapi/website: pages/docs/community/styleguide/inclusive-language.md

> # Inclusive Language

Reviewer: @BhaswatiRoy Kindly add metadata to this page so that the scripts of our website will easily recognize it as a page.

Author: done @akshatnema

> # Style Docs - Inclusive Language:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Inclusive Language
```
you can remove style docs in the heading as it is already a part of it. No need to declare exclusively

While writing documentation we are indirectly reaching out to thousands of people all around the globe. 
Thus, we must ensure that our diverse audience can connect with our information. 

> ### 1. Culturally Inclusive Language - 

Reviewer 2: there should not be any need of numbering the sections as you are already using headings `###` for the same purpose
```suggestion
### 1. Culturally Inclusive Language
```
you can remove hyphens too

> ---

Reviewer 3: 1. FYI @BhaswatiRoy, we observe sentence capitalization for headers in our docs. **Please update all headers accordingly**
1. Please correct your headers by removing the unnecessary `-` and numbers. Headers do not need numbers, only ordered lists need that. And as for dashes, they never belong in headers; they are superfluous characters that are not providing additional information. 
1. I noticed you used an `<h1>` for the first header but then skipped to `<h3>` for the rest of the headers. Please correct this because we actually need to start headers with `<h2>` because the title in the meta data is actually used as our `<h1>`. (let me know if that doesn't make sense) IOW, **you should fix your headers to start with an `<h2>` and you should NOT skip header levels.**
😄

title: Inclusive Language style guide
description: This style guide outlines the guideline for using inclusive languages in documentation.
---

# Inclusive Language

While writing documentation we are indirectly reaching out to thousands of people all around the globe. 
Thus, we must ensure that our diverse audience can connect with our information. 

### 1. Culturally Inclusive Language

Some phrases and words are popularly used only in specific regions of the world, thus our audience from other parts 
of the world might need help to relate to the same. Hence, we should try to avoid using such phrases in our documentation. 
Some examples of Region Specific Language are -
- “It’s not rocket science” is commonly used in the USA, and non-US people might not be able to relate to it properly.
- Phrases written in regional languages instead of English.
- “It’s not a piece of cake” is commonly used in the USA, and non-US people might not be able to relate to it properly.

### 2. Gender Neutral Language - 

> 

Reviewer 3: Not bad, but remember that the problem isn't only leaving nonbinary people out but also that the tech industry CONSISTENTLY leaves women out too! 

Let's improve this section by doing two things:
1. include the term `nonbinary` instead of merely alluding to it
2. add that only using male pronouns leaves women out of receiving credit or notability for their expertise

Some phrases and words are targeting men or men/women specifically. This might result in other gender groups feeling 
left out while reading our documentation. 
Some examples of Gender Neutral Language are -
- Using “they/them” instead of “his/him” or “she/her”.
- Using “Hello everyone” instead of “Hello guys”.
- Using “Chairperson” instead of “Chairman” or “Chairwoman”.

### 3. People First Language - 

> 

Reviewer 3: Here are further examples of **People First Language** that you can add:
- Instead of saying "the disabled person," say "person with a disability."
- Instead of saying "the mentally ill," say "people with mental health conditions."
- Instead of saying "wheelchair-bound," say "wheelchair user" 
- Instead of saying "the homeless," say "people experiencing homelessness."

Remember that People First Language puts the person before their condition or characteristic while recognizing that **some minority groups actually take pride in seeing their disability as part of their cultural identity.** 

(personal example: I am autistic and I do NOT appreciate the term _"person with autism"_ because I am not ashamed of having a neurodiverse brain. I am proud to identify and be an **autistic woman**.)

The placement of the word “People” matters a lot when it comes to writing documentation. 
Using the word “People” in the beginning makes it more pleasant as the problem is not displayed in the beginning.
Some examples of Gender Neutral Language are -

> - Using “People with Mental Instability” instead of “Mentally Unstable People”.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Using “People with a mental health condition” instead of “Mentally Unstable People”.
```

Ah... ironically, "**mentally unstable** people" is not an appropriate or respectful term to use. It can be stigmatizing and reinforces negative stereotypes about mental health. 

Here are better examples with more appropriate language:
- Person with a mental health condition
- Person with a psychiatric disability
- Person with mental illness
- Person with a mental health challenge
- Person experiencing a mental health crisis

> - Using “People with Audio Impairment” instead of “Deaf People”.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Using “Deaf” instead of “Person with deafness”.
```

Unfortunately, this example is not inclusive either. 😄 Individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing do not see their condition as a disability but rather as a **cultural identity or a unique way of experiencing the world**. Therefore, it's important to be mindful of the language we use to describe individuals with hearing loss.  They view themselves as members of a linguistic and cultural minority group that uses sign language as their primary means of communication. (Not to mention, the phrase "people with audio impairment" is not used.)

**Deaf** is the correct and inclusive term, so this should actually be listed as a correct example.

> ### 4. Slang Free Language -

Reviewer 3: This section is titled `slang`, but focuses on `vulgar language`. 

**Slang and vulgar language are not the same**, although they certainly may overlap in some cases. _Slang refers to informal words or expressions that are often used in specific communities or groups, and it can be considered more casual or colloquial than standard language._ (Slang terms are not inherently vulgar or offensive.)

On the other hand, _vulgar language refers to language that is considered crude, obscene, or offensive._ It often includes swear words, sexually explicit language, and may be considered inappropriate in certain contexts or situations. **Vulgar language can be slang, but not all slang is vulgar.**

**ACTION ITEMS:** 
1. Please fix this section and re-write it to actually focus on `slang` topic with dedicated `slang` examples. 
2. Please add an additional section and header for `vulgar`, which is it's own topic that deserves it's own examples. Please remember to be cautious what examples you add to this section and be mindful to select examples that do not make the community feel triggered or offended.

Reviewer 3: Here are some examples of incorrect slang terms and corrected alternatives to help you get started! ✨

**Incorrect Slang Terms:**
- "Crazy" - using this term to describe something unusual or unexpected is stigmatizing and offensive to people with mental health conditions.
- "Lame" - using this term to describe something boring or uncool is hurtful to people with disabilities.
- "Gay" - using this term as an insult or to describe something negative or undesirable is homophobic and offensive to the LGBTQ+ community.
- "Redneck" - using this term to describe someone from a rural area can be pejorative and offensive.
- "Ghetto" - using this term to describe something low-quality or undesirable can be stigmatizing and offensive to people living in poverty or urban areas.

**Corrected Alternatives:**
- "Unusual," "unexpected," or "surprising"
- "Boring," "uncool," or "uninteresting"
- Use language that is not insulting or offensive to any particular group. For example, instead of saying, "that's so gay," you could say, "that's not my thing," or "that's not cool."
- "Rural," "country," or "small town"
- "Low-quality," "undesirable," or "run-down"

_source: This is the edited version of the query reply I received from ChatGPT when I asked it for 5 ideas of incorrect slang terms and corrected alternatives._

While framing the documentation, we must ensure that we are not including any vulgar language even if those are 
included indirectly in our work. Often we don’t realize that slang words are included within phrases which have 
don’t have collaborative slang meanings. 
Some examples include -

> - Using “archaic” or “stupid” instead of “moron”.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Both terms “stupid” and "moron" are inappropriate examples historically used as diagnostic categories for individuals with mild to moderate intellectual disability; they are now considered outdated and offensive.

Using derogatory terms such as "moron," "idiot," or "retard" to refer to individuals with intellectual disabilities is stigmatizing and hurtful. It reinforces negative stereotypes and contributes to marginalization and discrimination.

**I would not use these examples under `Slang`, we must identify kind and respectful slang examples.**

> - Avoid using words like “bloody hell” and “damn”.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

While I don't have a problem with this example, I don't think it's relevant to our work. I can't think of any technical writer that has ever written engineering tutorials and started them off with the words `damn!` or `bloody hell!` hahaha 🤣 (not to say that wouldn't make for more entertaining reads in docs!)

Let's think of examples that we think a technical writer may actually write by mistake and include those kinds of ideas instead. Remember, you can also research ideas with tools like ChatGPT.

> ### 5. Ageism Free Language -  

Reviewer 3: ♥️

While constructing the documentation, we need to make sure to avoid words or phrases that might emphasize more 
on a specific age group that can make the other age groups feel left out. 
Some examples include -
- Using “lively” instead of “young”.
- Not to mention the exact age like “60 years” old.

> ### 6. Knowledge Assumption Free Language - 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### 6. Knowledge level assumption free language
```

I think we need to be clearer by using the term `knowledge level`.

> While building the documentation, we should always assure that we don’t presume the knowledge of the readers. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While building the documentation, we should always assure that we don’t presume the knowledge level of the readers. 
```

> This is because if we assume that our readers are highly skilled in front-end development, 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is because if we assume that our readers are highly skilled or have advanced experience, 
```

FE development isn't the only area relevant to our work, so let's fix this sentence too :)

---

> Title: Inclusive Language style guide

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
title: Inclusive Language style guide
```

Description: This style guide outlines the guideline for using inclusive languages in documentation.
---

# Inclusive Language

While writing documentation we are indirectly reaching out to thousands of people all around the globe. 
Thus, we must ensure that our diverse audience can connect with our information. 

## 1. Culturally inclusive language

Some phrases and words are popularly used only in specific regions of the world, thus our audience from other parts 
of the world might need help to relate to the same. Hence, we should try to avoid using such phrases in our documentation. 
Some examples of Region Specific Language are -
- “It’s not rocket science” is commonly used in the USA, and non-US people might not be able to relate to it properly.
- Phrases written in regional languages instead of English.
- “It’s not a piece of cake” is commonly used in the USA, and non-US people might not be able to relate to it properly.

> ## 2. Gender neutral language 

Reviewer 5: One could add to this point "avoid the use of stereotypes": such as linking men with strength, women with care work, male homosexuality with sensitivity, etc.

Author: added the changes!

Some phrases and words are targeting men or men/women specifically. This might result in other gender groups feeling 
left out while reading our documentation. Using only male pronouns, can make women in technology feel left out. 
Similarly, we should also try to include non binary group of people with our writing.
Some examples of Gender Neutral Language are -
- Using “they/them” instead of “his/him” or “she/her”.
- Using “Hello everyone” instead of “Hello guys”.
- Using “Chairperson” instead of “Chairman” or “Chairwoman”.
- Using "people", "guests" or "folks" instead of "ladies and gentlemen".
- Using "Mx" or "Ms" instead of using "Mr" or "Mrs".

## 3. People first language 

The placement of the word “People” matters a lot when it comes to writing documentation. 
Using the word “People” in the beginning makes it more pleasant as the problem is not displayed in the beginning.
Some examples of Gender Neutral Language are -
- Using “People with a mental health condition” instead of “Mentally Unstable People”.
- Using “Deaf” instead of “Person with deafness”.

> - Using "People with a disability" instead of "Disabled eople".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Using "People with a disability" instead of "Disabled people".
```

> ---

Reviewer 3: Could you please take some time to review the document and ensure that each line is properly formatted? It appears that several sentences break into new lines, giving the impression of new paragraphs. This may cause confusion and hinder readability. Taking the time to carefully review and adjust the spacing and formatting will greatly improve the overall clarity and coherence of the document. Thank you for your attention to detail and for ensuring a smooth reading experience for our audience.

title: Inclusive Language style guide
Description: This style guide outlines the guideline for using inclusive languages in documentation.
---

# Inclusive Language

While writing documentation we are indirectly reaching out to thousands of people all around the globe. 
Thus, we must ensure that our diverse audience can connect with our information. 

> ## 1. Culturally inclusive language

Reviewer 3: @BhaswatiRoy We shouldn't have numbers or dashes in our headers. Please go through your PR and remove all numbers from headers. 😄✌🏽

> Some phrases and words are popularly used only in specific regions of the world, thus our audience from other parts 
> of the world might need help to relate to the same. Hence, we should try to avoid using such phrases in our documentation. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Certain phrases and words are commonly used in specific regions of the world. Avoid avoiding region-specific language in the documentation. 
```

Some examples of Region Specific Language are -
- “It’s not rocket science” is commonly used in the USA, and non-US people might not be able to relate to it properly.
- Phrases written in regional languages instead of English.

> - “It’s not a piece of cake” is commonly used in the USA, and non-US people might not be able to relate to it properly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- “It’s a piece of cake” is commonly used in the USA, and non-US people might not be able to relate to it properly.
```

the saying is without the "not" 😄

- Terms like "gypsy" is considered derogatory in Romani community, "eskimo" is considered offensive in artic community.
- Terms like "tipping point" is considered offensive in African American cultures.

## 2. Gender neutral language 

> Some phrases and words are targeting men or men/women specifically. This might result in other gender groups feeling 
> left out while reading our documentation. Using only male pronouns, can make women in technology feel left out. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Some phrases and words target men or men/women specifically, resulting in other gender groups feeling left out while reading our documentation. Using only male pronouns also make women in technology feel excluded or overlooked.
```

Similarly, we should also try to include non binary group of people with our writing.
Some examples of Gender Neutral Language are -
- Using “they/them” instead of “his/him” or “she/her”.
- Using “Hello everyone” instead of “Hello guys”.
- Using “Chairperson” instead of “Chairman” or “Chairwoman”.
- Using "people", "guests" or "folks" instead of "ladies and gentlemen".
- Using "Mx" or "Ms" instead of using "Mr" or "Mrs".
- Using "humankind" instead of "mankind".
- Avoid using sterotypes such as linking "male" with "strength", "women" with "care work", "male homosexuality" with "sensitivity".

## 3. Accessibility and Disability 

The placement of the word “People” matters a lot when it comes to writing documentation. 
Using the word “People” in the beginning makes it more pleasant as the problem is not displayed in the beginning.

> The phrasing of sentences should not be in a manner that depicts Ableism or discrimination against individuals with disabilities or 
> the assumption that people with disabilities are inferior to those without disabilitie.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Ensure that sentences are not phrased in a manner that reflects ableism or discriminates against individuals with disabilities, or assumes that people with disabilities are inferior to those without disabilities.
```

Some examples of Gender Neutral Language are -
- Using “People with a mental health condition” instead of “Mentally Unstable People”.
- Using “Deaf” instead of “Person with deafness”.
- Using "People with a disability" instead of "Disabled eople".
- Using "Wheelchair Users" instead of "Wheelchair bound".
- Using "People experiencing homelessness" instead of "Homeless people"

> - Avoid using derogatory terms that refer to people with disabilities like "crazy", "retarded", "lame".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Avoid using derogatory terms that refer to people with disabilities like "crazy", "retarded", and "lame".
```

- Try using phrases like "overlook" or "ignore" instead of "turn a blind eye", or using "unheard" or "unnoticed" instead of saying "falling on deaf ears".

## 4. Slang free language 

While framing the documentation, we must ensure that we are not including any vulgar language even if those are 

> included indirectly in our work. Often we don’t realize that slang words are included within phrases which have 
> don’t have collaborative slang meanings. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
included indirectly in our work. We should be mindful of inadvertently including slang words within phrases that may have unintended or inappropriate connotations.
```

Some examples include -
- Using “simple” or “easy" instead of “no-brainer”.
- Using "simple" or "straightforward" instead of "easy-peasy".
- Avoid using any racist, sexist, or any discriminatory language like "stupid" or "retarted".
- Using "easy" or "simple" instead of "piece of cake".
- Using "excellent" or "impressive" instead of "dope"

## 5. Ageism free language   

> While constructing the documentation, we need to make sure to avoid words or phrases that might emphasize more 
> on a specific age group that can make the other age groups feel left out. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When constructing the documentation, avoiding words or phrases that may disproportionately emphasize a specific age group is important, making other age groups feel excluded.
```

Some examples include -
- Avoid mentioning the exact age like “60 years” old.
- Using "experienced" instead of "old-timer"
- Avoid phrases like "you are too old to understand" or "you are too yound to understand"
- Using “lively” instead of “young”.
- Avoid making assumptions about a person's abilities or interests based on their age, like assuming an older adult will not be tech savvy.

## 6. Knowledge level assumption free language

While building the documentation, we should always assure that we don’t presume the knowledge level of the readers. 
This is because if we assume that our readers are highly skilled or have advanced experience, 

> we might skip explaining or linking some important concepts. Also, we should avoid labeling some steps as “easy”, 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
we might inadvertently skip explaining or linking some important concepts. Also, we should avoid labeling some steps as “easy”, 
```
